## Spring Data
Spring Data is usually one of the first projects Spring developers touch. And for a good reason, one of the biggest boilerplate areas of software is in data access, and Spring Data makes data access very easy in most cases.
## What is Spring Data at its core?
* **Provides a common set of Interfaces**: Spring Data provides a common set of Interfaces based on JPA (Java Persistence API).
* **Provides a common naming convention**: These interfaces leverage convention around method naming to derive data access behavior using JPA and the Hibernate implementation of it.
* **Provides aspected behavior**: This behavior is aspected, which in practice results in you simply writing an interface and allowing the code to be handled by Spring through the use of aspects. Yes, you just write an Interface. If you have ever written JDBC access code, this is a game changer.
* **Provides Repository and Data Mapping convention**: Now, in addition to behavior, Spring Data provides the repository pattern natively and includes data mapping conventions to translate results sets to entity objects, much as you would see with JPA and Hibernate.
## What are the benefits of using Spring Data?
There are several key benefits of Spring Data, and I've touched on some of these in the course already.
* **Remove boilerplate code**: Spring Data removes a lot of the boilerplate code. If you see how is a typical call using JDBC, you'll be able to immediately see it's reduction in boilerplate code.
* **Allows for swapping data-sources easier**: Spring Data lets you use local or embedded data sources while working on a POC and very easily swap it to a production data source without much work. This ability to swap data sources also makes data migration significantly easier.
* **Allows to focus on business logic**: All of this, as you have read already, allows you to focus on the business logic.
## Key Concepts
There are only a couple of key components that you need to understand with Spring Data, adding to its value proposition.

* **Repository Interface**: The Repository Interface is, by far, the one you will leverage the most. A Spring Data Repository, regardless of if it's based on an RDBMS system or a NoSQL system ,it provides the methods needed to access the data. It is built using an extension of a Spring class and generics. It is an Interface that leverages proxies to build the actual base CRUD methods.