# Construction, Packaging and Project Execution

Once we have our Spring Initializr ZIP file downloaded, we can position it anywhere that suits us best. There, we will have to unzip it. But before we start opening our project with the IDE of our choice, I would like to mention that you can also use the CMD to navigate to the project directory and run the "mvn package" command.

### What is the mvn package command for?
It is used in the Maven environment to package your project. When you run "mvn package," Maven compiles your source code, runs tests if you have them configured, and then packages the project into a specific format (such as JAR or WAR). In short, "mvn package" automates the process of building and packaging your Java project.

If everything goes well, at the end of all the logs the message "BUILD SUCCESS" should appear in green.

### Code Execution from CMD
You can run your code without even opening it in an IDE. How? Well, you can open a CMD console, and from there navigate to the directory where your project is located, once there, execute the following command: `java -jar target/learning-spring-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`

The `java -jar` command, after being executed, will start your Spring application using the embedded TomCat server on port 8080. Now, you have a JVM running on that port. If you go to http://localhost:8080/ you will see the application itself running, although you will probably see a "White Label Error Page" with an error code 404. This error is actually coming from TomCat. The issue is that we have not configured an error page nor one for the index.

But still, just seeing this error page is the clear representation that the web application is running.