# What is Inversion of Control (IoC) and Dependency Injection (DI)?

## Inversion of Control
### First of all, what does IoC mean?
IoC stands for "_Inversion of Control_".

### What do you mean by "Inversion of Control"?
It is said to be an "Inversion of Control" because what the programmer controlled in the development of an application, is now done by the Spring framework.

### What is Spring supposed to control now?
Spring takes control of managing objects and their dependencies (using Dependency Injection) instead of the programmer having to handle everything manually.

In Inversion of Control, the Container maintains the dependencies of your classes throughout their life cycle.

### What do you mean by the "Container"?
This is how they call a very important class in the Spring ecosystem. This is the `BeanFactory` class. You will very rarely, if ever, interact with the `BeanFactory`.

Typically, you would have more interaction with the `Application Context`. You could say that the `Application Context` is a layer that wraps the `BeanFactory`. In fact, they share some common interfaces.

### What does this "Bean Factory" do?
The `BeanFactory` maintains references to Spring Beans. References are not added to the `BeanFactory`. They are configured and Spring handles object initialization as well as object instantiation.

Once the Beans have been initialized, a sort of order of operations for construction is created, based on the dependencies. The beans are then instantiated in the corresponding order, by the Bean Factory.

From the Container, objects can be injected as dependencies into other classes at the time the application is started or during its execution.

## Dependency Injection (DI)
Inversion of Control provides a "Dependency Injection" mechanism. This is done within the `BeanFactory`. From the Container, objects can be injected as dependencies into other classes at the time the application is started or during its execution.

### What do you mean by "Dependencies"?

Very simply, a dependency is something that the code needs to work. It depends on that "something", that is why it is called "dependency". A dependency can be a connection to a database, or a specific service.