# 1.What is a Database (DB)
Really, a Database is any collection of related information. This is the absolute most general definition of this word.
## Examples of Databases:
Starting from this perspective, a Database could be a:
* Phone book
* Shopping list
* Todo list
* Your 5 best friends
* Facebook's User base

All of these are examples of databases, all of these are collections of information. It's all about collections of related information. A shopping list, is information about all the stuff or items you're going to buy. So these items, these products are related info.

All of these is essentially, examples of databases.
## How are these Databases stored?
Well, Databases can be stored in different ways:
* On paper
* In your mind
* On a computer
* In an obsidian file
* In an Excel file

So, as you can see, you can actually stored certain databases in the format you would consider the most efficient one for that purpose. Maybe, a list of best friends could be something you could just keep in your mind. But the Todo list, or the Shopping list could be inside an obsidian file, or maybe in a cellphone note application.

So now we understand the very general definition of a Database.

Well, now, obviously, when we talk about a good and efficient way of storing data for like a big company, software or whatever, usually, the best option is to use some kind of digital database, I mean, using a actual computer for data storage.

For example, I'm pretty sure, all the users from Amazon aren't in someone's mind, or piece of paper. So, the best option, is to use a computer. I mean, it makes it easy to back up, to secure it, to move it to different platforms among other things, like perform analysis and stuff.