# Build a Service Abstraction

One of the first things we need to discuss is why even build service abstractions. One of the primary cases is to encapsulate layers of your code. Often, you want to separate your view layer from your data layer, and building service abstractions between them allow you to build business logic into a layer that isn't your front end.

They can also be used to extract third-party APIs. This is very powerful since those vendors tend to change over time. By building an abstraction, you can isolate the impacted code if something does change.

You can also use them to simplify implementations. Say that you have a data layer for multiple use cases. You can expose only those implementations necessary for a given use case in code, avoiding the noise of those use cases that don't pertain to your specific business case that you're working on.

They can also be built with multiple implementations, if needed, such as swapping an SMS provider based on geolocation. This is similar to a factory pattern, and often we use a factory to serve the proper implementation when needed.
## How to build a Service Abstraction?
So, now, it's time to talk about how we build one and, specifically, focusing on the Spring Framework.

So, first of all, we define our interface or our class if we're not using interfaces, although at the surface boundary level, interfaces really are something that you want to focus on.

We then create the API of our interface or class. Now we get to the point of injecting dependencies, and this is really where we dig into the IoC container.

If we have multiple implementations and each of those has multiple dependencies, we now have to build a whole bunch of code to create those dependencies when we create those implementations.

By allowing Spring to manage these dependencies, they will be injected in at the right time and they can more effectively be shared, for instance, if a person data service needs to be shared across both your accounting services and your reservation services.

By using dependency injection, we create one instance of the person service and use it everywhere.

Once we have our service implementation and the dependencies in it, along with the API, we can now annotate or configure our class to be managed by Spring itself so that it too can be injected where needed.

And then, finally, you will code your implementation so that it is specific to the use cases at hand.

Now, of course, these can be swapped in order, but this is generally the direction that I use when I'm building out a service because I use a lot of test-driven development.

By creating the class, and the API, and defining my dependencies, I can now mock it and test it before the implementation is written.

That way I know that the implementation passing means that the tests are passing, which is a very fundamental concept with TDD.