# 1. Introduction to AWS Cloud Practitioner Essentials

## What does AWS offers?
AWS offers a massive range of services for every business, starting with basic elements, like compute, storage, and network security tools, through complex solutions like blockchain, machine learning, or artificial intelligence, and robot development platforms.

## AWS Cloud Computing Model
### Client Server Model

So, in the official AWS Skill Builder Platform, they try to represent how the Client-Server model works using as an example how a Coffee Shop works.

So, there's two approaches to this, the analogy explanation, and the simple explanation. Both are pretty easy to understand. So, let's start with the simple one:
#### Client-Server Model (Simple Explanation):
"In computing, a **client** can be a web browser or desktop application that a person interacts with to make requests to computer servers. A **server** can be services, such as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) – a type of virtual server.

For example, suppose that a client makes a request for a news article, the score in an online game, or a funny video. The server evaluates the details of this request and fulfills it by returning the information to the client."
#### Client-Server Model (Coffee Shop Analogy):
"Almost all modern computing centers around a basic client-server model. Now I know it can be more complicated than that, so let's take a look at our coffee shop."

This coffee shop is going to give us some real world metaphors to help you understand why AWS can change the way your IT operates.

Let's make Morgan the server, the barista. And I am the client, the customer. I make a request. In this case, it is for coffee. Now in the computing world, the request could be anything. It could be rain pattern analysis in South Africa, or the latest x-rays of your knee, or videos of kittens. Whatever is the business, basically a customer makes a request, and with permissions, the server responds to that request.

Morgan represents the server part of the client-server model. In AWS, she would be called an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, or EC2, an EC2 instance, a virtual server. So from an architectural point of view, the transaction we did is really simple to explain.

I, the user, made a request to Morgan, the server. Morgan validated that the request was legitimate, in this case: "did I give her money?". Then she returned a response, which in this case, is a coffee.

Now in the real world, applications can get more complicated than just a single transaction with a single server. In a business solution that is more mature, it can get beautifully complex.
## AWS Key Concept: You only pay for what you use
Let's start with a key concept to AWS, and that is, "you only pay for what you use".

This principle makes sense when you run a coffee shop. Employees are only paid when they're in the store working. If Rudy and Morgan are off the clock, well then they don't get paid. The store owner simply decides how many baristas are needed and then just pays for the hours they work.

For example, the coffee shop is about to release a new drink, the Pumpkin Monster Spice. In anticipation of this launch, you could always staff your shop with a dozen baristas all day long, just in case you suddenly get an unexpected rush at some point in the day. Only, let's be honest. For most of your day, you don't have near enough customers to justify paying for all those employees.

And yet, this is exactly what happens in an on-premises data center. You can't just snap your fingers and triple your capacity. At AWS, you don't pre-pay for anything. And you don't have to worry about capacity constraints.

When you need instances, or baristas, you just click a button, and you have them. And when you don't need them, another click, and they go away, and you stop paying for them. The same way you don't pay for employees for hours that they're not working.

So, pay for what you need, becomes the first key value.